United Nations Secretary General Antonio
gues is on his way to the Rafa border
crossing between Egypt and the Gaza
Strip that's where a limited number of
trucks are expected to deliver
humanitarian Aid into Gaza in the coming
hours following a plan announced by US
President Joe Biden Gaza is currently
experiencing severe shortages of fuel
food and medicines Israel launched air
strikes in Gaza and sealed the territory
off from supplies after Hamas militants
entered Israel almost 2 weeks ago and
killed at least 1,400 people the UN
Chief says more than 2 million are at
risk of dehydration and waterbor
diseases in Gaza civilians in Gaza
desperately need core services and
supplies and for that we need rapid and
impeded humanitarian
exess we need food water medicine and
fuel now we need it at scale and we need
it to be
sustained let's bring bring in kareim El
gawari here he's a journalist in Egypt's
capital Cairo Kareem what are Egyptian
authorities saying about when a
deliveries to Gaza will
resume well the talk is that it is set
for today uh that also in the presence
of the UN General Secretary gutiz um
officially it's not open yet because
there is extensive repair work
especially on the Palestinian side
because this area since the war was
since the war broke out was bombed four
times in its vicinity and the the the
street to the border crossing has
extensive damage but I hear that until
now there's also until this moment a
struggle in the background between the
US Israel and Egypt about how much Aid
will be allowed in until now it's
supposed to be only 20 trucks that can
go to specific locations one once the
border is open uh but of course on the
Egyptian side there are many many more
trucks lined up talk is about that
there's waiting eight of 3,000 tons
right now on the other side talk for
sure will be also about the foreign
Nationals and possibilities for them to
leave the Gaza Strip via uh this Rafa
border crossing Egypt since days tries
to link the two things they're saying
like they can go out only if eight comes
comes in and that is all still probably
that discussion until now it's not sure
if and when this Crossing is really
opening today know we're talking about
humanitarian aid for people who are
living under extremely difficult
conditions and civilians who are are
facing serious uh health issues among
other things they're hungry uh why has
it been so difficult Kareem to get that
Aid flowing back into
Gaza well it is has to be done in
coordination between Egypt
Hamas Israel and the un uh it seems to
be very very difficult from the Egyptian
side they are ready to bring the aid in
the big topic for the Egyptian side is
uh about crossing the border opening the
border crossing and for the Palestinians
to leave from there there's a big fear
in Egypt about a Palestinian Exodus from
Gaza Egyptian president CCE just said
that the current war was not just aimed
at fighting hamama
but also an attempt to push civilian
inhabitants to migrate to Egypt uh
that's is the big fear you have to
understand there is a Palestinian and
Arab trauma about a nakba the fear that
Palestinians once again will be
forcefully displayed displaced until now
in their history whenever they escaped
to another country they were never
allowed back and uh I think that's is
really the big issue this is also the
issue in Jordan This is the issue in
Egypt right now
why they are so reluctant that the
Palestinians can come from the Gaza
Strip kareim thank you very much for now
that was journalist kareim El gawari
reporting from Egypt's capital
Caira Palestinian militants continued to
fire Rockets from Gaza into Israel on
Thursday this as Israeli forces struck
Targets in the Gaza Strip throughout the
day including in the south of the
territory where Israel has told Gaza to
head for their own safety one explosion
there reportedly killed and injured
several people including
children a father carrying his child to
the
Grave his was one of three children
among those receiving the final rights
on this Barren patch of
land prayers are held to the sound of
Israeli aircraft hovering above a
constant menace to the Palestinians
below and a reminder of the air strike
on the town of Kanan yunes that killed
the civilians being buried
here hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians have fled the northern part
of the Gaza Strip after Israel told them
to leave for the
South running out of food and desperate
for shelter they have found no reprieve
from Israel's Relentless bombing
[Music]
campaign we came from gasa City they
told us to come to the South so we came
to the South we found that the strikes
intensified in the South we stayed in a
house in front of us there were strikes
behind us strikes there's no safety
there's nowhere safe in gasa you have to
be ready to die and to just stay in your
house Israel vows to continue targeting
Hamas all over Gaza when there is a
threat originating or uh being conducted
against Israel from the south and we
will strike
absolutely and it will soon move its
powerful Army into the strip Israel's
defense minister told troops massing on
its
border oh my God I promise you that
whoever sees Gaza now from afar will see
it from the inside good
luck an Israeli ground operation will
likely focus on the north at least in
the initial
stages with hmer expected to put up
Fierce resistance the batt confines of
Southern Gaza may still prove a
sanctuary of
sorts hen belusa is a journalist in Gaza
earlier I asked him about the
humanitarian situation
there the humanit terranean situation is
getting hard and harsh um no electricity
no power at all and no drinking water uh
no internet um limited access to food um
U no bers no trucks coming in uh people
are lying on bories in grocery shops and
restaurants people can afford some stuff
but still uh others are not um some
people are staying in um at schools and
they are providing very limited amount
of food and according to the limited
amount that they have according to the
official um uh all the services and
infrastructure are there in in Gaza
barely we are connected on the phone it
come it comes and goes no internet
people are not
communicating um as regular um people
don't know here and the officials that
how long that Gaza can survive with the
current
situation their efforts to resume Aid
deliveries to Gaza across the border
with Egypt are Palestinians in Gaza
expecting those Aid deliveries to resume
to actually reach
them well this is a question
that um how and when this Aid will come
um there are a lot of reports that it
would come today but seems like up to
now nothing came in into Gaza um with
the with the they are talking about 20
trucks which is very limited and this
would be through the UN agencies
particularly uh uh H and maybe R
presentent we didn't know yet about the
mechanism and uh I don't know how how
this will be distributed to Ordinary
People the other people in the South or
only for those refugees are staying at
the H cast is there any place in Gaza
where the people there can flee to and
be
safe actually not um I'm displaced uh
myself with my family for the third time
in this war um many people left their
places in North and and Gaza City to the
South but you know overnight here I'm in
the central G thre and I still hear
bombardments and air strikes there were
many reports about air strikes in raan
commun which is in the South uh many
buildings were destroyed there are many
people killed
in different a strikes but we can't we
have to say that it's more intense in
Gaza and North here is is continued but
still there are many people killed by or
due to to the a
strikes hen thank you very much for your
reporting that was journalist hen Balia
speaking to us from
Gaza thank
you